Alright, so in preparation I've been thinking of a concept for the game I'd like to create
So picture this;

A perfect world, where no ones needs are not made. A futuristic paradise, where eceryone has acess to food, water, shelter, any anything their hearts desire. Mankind is at the peak of technology and resources.

Then one day, a catastrophic event, causes the town to fall in ruin. A huge pillar erecting out of the ground causes massive tremors and earthquakes. The massive (and unknown) tower that just seemingly popped up out of nowhere puts people in a panic. The earthquakes caused by this tower shooting out of the ground, destroys a lot of the city, and destroys most of the foundations. Anarchy begin to spread, since the common needs and wants of the people are now no longer being supplied.
Once a thriving, city, filled with all your dreams have now become a ruined city of chaos. Where the only rules are governed by the people.

People fight to get what they want.
A world where much of the needs of the people are now supplied by their own actions & efforts.(ie. if people need food, they find, pillage, and kill for it).
Rumors over the years begin to spread about the Tower and what it's purpose is, and what it may hold. They speculate that a magical object/power rests on the top of the tower which can grant anyone their one true desire/wish. They base this speculation, purely on the fact of a light blue glow you can see emitting from the very top of the tower.

It isn't long before some people in the city begin to head up the tower trying to reach the top. Trying to so desperately achieve their one true wish. This is where you come in. You're a simple civilian who was born years after the catastrophe of the "Tower's Siege". Unknown of the world before, you are contempt living with your family and younger sibling in this world. 
Until one day.
Your younger sibling gets ill, and without any medication existing in this world, your guy turns to the one thing he believes may save his younger sibling, his family, and possibly the city.

Soo many hope for a "cure" at the top of this tower, but soo many have ventured into it to ascend to the top, and those who did either never came back. Those who did come back, were not the same. Deemed "mentally unstable" speaking of creatures that only seem to spawn from their nightmares and dreams. But determined, and with a goal, you go against your parents will to try and save your sibling.

With the tower seemingly being the only hope to restoring the city to it's once former glory, it is praised and sought out. But people often forget it is this very tower that destroyed their once peaceful town of eden. Will it grant good, like all the rumors claim, or is there something menacing the tower holds, which is the reason for all this destruction?



Essentially the setting takes place in a futuristic, run down city (possibly Tokyo?), but it's more in just the tower. 
You'll like learn the basics (tutorial) in the town, but then venture into the tower, where the story will begin. I like the combat aspect of this game http://store.steampowered.com/app/248820 so it'd be neat to have to go through the floors fighting enemies and solving puzzles in this style.

Most of that story won't really be explained in much detail, but I want there to be a lot of speculation towards the good vs bad intentions of the tower, but we'll discuss that later.
Back into the game mechanics parts, I'd like to incorporate a kind of surreal gameplay, while mixing the combat of that game I linked you (Risk of Rain), with some puzzles and the likes.
During the tutorial, it'd be neat if we could have them try out a varaity of styles of combat, then be able to like select one or two combat styles to use through the gameplay
I also want some rpg element, where the character will talk (just the text stuff), to remark on some things during certain parts of the story
And of course, he's ascending a tower, so it'd be kinda like "binding of issac" where you go from room to room, except it's floor to floor, facing whatever challengers there may be
and picking up loot and better upgrades for yourself
Let me know what you think of this concept.
I know it's pretty indepth for a first time game, but we can dumb it down a little if we need to